# Training AI to play the game For Sale by Stefan Dorra

[For Sale]([url](https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/172/for-sale)) is a bidding game first published in 1997 where players buy and sell real estate. The game is played in two distinct phases.[^1] In phase one, players each have a set number of coins to spend on properties. In turn order, players are allowed to place the next bid in the auction or pass. Players who pass are given back half of any coins they had previously bid.[^2] Players who pass are given the lowest value property until the final player remaining receives the best property. This cycle repeats until all properties are bought. In the selling phase, a number of checks equal to the number of players is displayed. Players secretly select one of their properties to sell, and checks are distributed based on the printed value of the properties. This cycle repeats until all properties are sold. The player with the largest balance of checks and unspent coins is declared the best real estate broker and the winner.

# Why For Sale?
I recently started playing For Sale on [Board Game Arena]([url](https://boardgamearena.com/gamepanel?game=forsale)) and immediately started to consider the mathematicaly optimal style of play. Board Game Geek suggests playing the game with 5 players (I haven't played with any other player count), and with 30 properties and 30 checks in the game, every property and check is seen at some point in every game. It should be simple enough to train an AI to play the game in a mathematically optimal way, but I am curious if it will learn any unforseen strategies or learn to exploit weaker opponents. This is also only my second game playing bot, and [my first game bot played Rock Paper Scissors]([url](http://www.rpscontest.com/)), so this will be a great starting point.


[^1]: It is somewhat rare for games to have this distinct phase split, and for such a simple game, it adds a great thematic arc. Check out this design doc by Arcs and Root designer Cole Wehrle where he explains the difference in types of temporality in board games. The distinct phase split is similar to Brass and is the second type of temporality discussed in the article.  https://ledergames.com/blogs/news/arcs-designer-diary-4-two-types-of-time-in-arcs

[^2]: Historically, the game has had different rules on if it should be rounded up or rounded down. There is even ambiguity on the designer's original intent. I will make versions of the game that use both rules to understand differences in play. There is more money in the game if players get the money back rounded up, and I expect this difference to have a significant strategic impact. https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/1532852/article/21974828#21974828
